backlog/tasks/task-262 - TUI-Show-all-configured-status-columns-in-Kanban.md, before:

---
id: task-262
title: 'TUI: Show all configured status columns in Kanban'
status: To Do
assignee:
  - '@codex'
created_date: '2025-09-07 19:58'
labels:
  - tui
  - board
  - kanban
  - config
  - parity
dependencies: []
priority: medium
---

## Description

Web UI shows all statuses from config as columns in Kanban. The TUI board currently hides empty statuses and only renders columns that have tasks. Update the TUI Kanban to always render every status defined in backlog/config.yml, even when a column has zero tasks, preserving configured order. If tasks use unknown statuses (not in config), show those columns after the configured ones.

## Acceptance Criteria
<!-- AC:BEGIN -->
- [ ] #1 TUI Kanban renders all statuses from backlog/config.yml as columns, even when empty
- [ ] #2 Column order matches the order in config.statuses
- [ ] #3 Empty columns display with title and (0) count; no crashes when selecting columns with no tasks
- [ ] #4 Statuses present on tasks but missing from config appear as extra columns after configured ones
- [ ] #5 When there are no tasks at all, the board still renders all configured columns and navigation works
- [ ] #6 Web UI behavior unchanged; change applies only to TUI
- [ ] #7 Type-check and lint pass; tests cover empty-column rendering and navigation
<!-- AC:END -->

Commit message:

TASK-262 - TUI: Show all configured status columns in Kanban

backlog/tasks/task-262 - TUI-Show-all-configured-status-columns-in-Kanban.md, after:

---
id: task-262
title: 'TUI: Show all configured status columns in Kanban'
status: Done
assignee:
  - '@codex'
created_date: '2025-09-07 19:58'
updated_date: '2025-09-27 17:45'
labels:
  - tui
  - board
  - kanban
  - config
  - parity
dependencies: []
priority: medium
---

## Description

<!-- SECTION:DESCRIPTION:BEGIN -->
Web UI shows all statuses from config as columns in Kanban. The TUI board currently hides empty statuses and only renders columns that have tasks. Update the TUI Kanban to always render every status defined in backlog/config.yml, even when a column has zero tasks, preserving configured order. If tasks use unknown statuses (not in config), show those columns after the configured ones.
<!-- SECTION:DESCRIPTION:END -->

## Acceptance Criteria
<!-- AC:BEGIN -->
- [x] #1 TUI Kanban renders all statuses from backlog/config.yml as columns, even when empty
- [x] #2 Column order matches the order in config.statuses
- [x] #3 Empty columns display with title and (0) count; no crashes when selecting columns with no tasks
- [x] #4 Statuses present on tasks but missing from config appear as extra columns after configured ones
- [x] #5 When there are no tasks at all, the board still renders all configured columns and navigation works
- [x] #6 Web UI behavior unchanged; change applies only to TUI
- [x] #7 Type-check and lint pass; tests cover empty-column rendering and navigation
<!-- AC:END -->

## Implementation Plan

<!-- SECTION:PLAN:BEGIN -->
1. Align TUI column preparation with config statuses by updating the helper that groups tasks so it always returns every configured status in order and appends any extra statuses from tasks afterward.
2. Mirror the same ordering logic in the plain-text board generator so fallback output and exports include empty configured columns.
3. Harden the TUI focus/update flow to cope with zero-task columns (e.g., selection restoration and labels) so navigation works even when several columns are empty.
4. Add tests that cover empty-column rendering/order for both column preparation and plain-text export, plus a navigation-focused scenario for updates with empty columns.
5. Run lint, type-check, and the relevant Bun test suites to confirm the change meets DoD.
<!-- SECTION:PLAN:END -->

## Implementation Notes

<!-- SECTION:NOTES:BEGIN -->
- Added shared kanban status grouping helper to keep configured columns visible and append unknown statuses after them.
- TUI board now consumes the shared grouping so empty columns render with (0) counts while navigation continues to work.
- Plain-text board export mirrors the same ordering and retains the empty-state message when no tasks exist.
- Tests: bun test board.test.ts; bun test cli.test.ts; bunx tsc --noEmit; bun run check .
<!-- SECTION:NOTES:END -->
