src/guidelines/mcp/overview.md, before:

## Backlog.md Overview (MCP)

This project uses Backlog.md to track features, bugs, and structured work as tasks.

### When to Use Backlog

**Create a task if the work requires planning or decision-making:**

Ask yourself: "Do I need to think about HOW to do this?"
- **YES** → Search for existing task first, create if needed
- **NO** → Just do it (the change is trivial/mechanical)

**Examples of work that needs tasks:**
- "Fix the authentication bug" → need to investigate, understand root cause, choose fix
- "Add error handling to the API" → need to decide what errors, how to handle them
- "Refactor UserService" → need to plan new structure, migration path

**Examples of work that doesn't need tasks:**
- "Fix typo in README" → obvious mechanical change
- "Update version number to 2.0" → straightforward edit
- "Add missing semicolon" → clear what to do

**Always skip tasks for:**
- Questions and informational requests
- Reading/exploring/explaining code, issues, or concepts

### Typical Workflow

When the user requests non-trivial work:
1. **Search first:** Use `task_search` or `task_list` (with status filters) - work might already be tracked
2. **If found:** Work on the existing task. Check task-execution workflow to know how to proceed
3. **If not found:** Create task(s) based on scope (single task or present breakdown for approval). Check task-creation workflow for details
4. **Execute:** Follow task-execution guidelines

Searching first avoids duplicate tasks and helps you understand existing context.

### Detailed Guidance (Required)

Read these resources to get essential instructions when:

- **Creating tasks** → `backlog://workflow/task-creation` - Scope assessment, acceptance criteria, parent/subtasks structure
- **Planning & executing work** → `backlog://workflow/task-execution` - Planning workflow, implementation discipline, scope changes
- **Finalizing tasks** → `backlog://workflow/task-finalization` - Definition of Done, finalization checklist, next steps

These guides contain critical workflows you need to follow for proper task management.

### Core Principle

Backlog tracks **commitments** (what will be built). Use your judgment to distinguish between "help me understand X" (no tracking) vs "add feature Y" (track in Backlog).

**Execution Model:** Tasks are executed by independent AI agents in separate sessions. Each agent only sees its assigned task, not prior conversation history, so tasks must include enough context for a developer with no prior knowledge to start immediately.

### MCP Tools Quick Reference

**Note:** "Done" tasks stay in the Done column until periodic cleanup moves them to the completed folder. Don't use `task_complete` immediately after finishing—it's for batch cleanup, not per-task workflow.

- `task_list` — list tasks with optional filtering by status, assignee, or labels
- `task_search` — search tasks by title and description
- `task_view` — read full task context (description, plan, notes, acceptance criteria)
- `task_create` — create new tasks with description and acceptance criteria
- `task_edit` — update task metadata, status, plan, notes, acceptance criteria, and dependencies
- `task_complete` — move a Done task to the completed folder (periodic cleanup, not immediate)
- `task_archive` — archive a task that should not be completed (duplicate, canceled, invalid). Note: archived task IDs can be reused by new tasks (soft delete behavior).

**Always operate through MCP tools. Never edit markdown files directly so relationships, metadata, and history stay consistent.**

Commit message:

BACK-354 - Project Definition of Done defaults (#487)
## Summary
- Add Definition of Done defaults to config + task markdown persistence,
and apply defaults in core create/update flows.
- Expose DoD add/remove/check/uncheck across CLI, MCP, Web UI, and TUI;
add Settings defaults editor and reuse checklist UI in task modal.
- Add DoD tests and update docs/guidelines; fix Settings DoD input focus
loss and normalize select heights in Safari.

## Testing
- bun test src/test/definition-of-done-cli.test.ts
src/test/mcp-tasks.test.ts src/test/tui-definition-of-done.test.ts
src/test/cli-plain-output.test.ts src/test/cli-plain-create-edit.test.ts
- bun test src/test/definition-of-done.test.ts

src/guidelines/mcp/overview.md, after:

## Backlog.md Overview (MCP)

This project uses Backlog.md to track features, bugs, and structured work as tasks.

### When to Use Backlog

**Create a task if the work requires planning or decision-making:**

Ask yourself: "Do I need to think about HOW to do this?"
- **YES** → Search for existing task first, create if needed
- **NO** → Just do it (the change is trivial/mechanical)

**Examples of work that needs tasks:**
- "Fix the authentication bug" → need to investigate, understand root cause, choose fix
- "Add error handling to the API" → need to decide what errors, how to handle them
- "Refactor UserService" → need to plan new structure, migration path

**Examples of work that doesn't need tasks:**
- "Fix typo in README" → obvious mechanical change
- "Update version number to 2.0" → straightforward edit
- "Add missing semicolon" → clear what to do

**Always skip tasks for:**
- Questions and informational requests
- Reading/exploring/explaining code, issues, or concepts

### Typical Workflow

When the user requests non-trivial work:
1. **Search first:** Use `task_search` or `task_list` (with status filters) - work might already be tracked
2. **If found:** Work on the existing task. Check task-execution workflow to know how to proceed
3. **If not found:** Create task(s) based on scope (single task or present breakdown for approval). Check task-creation workflow for details
4. **Execute:** Follow task-execution guidelines

Searching first avoids duplicate tasks and helps you understand existing context.

### Detailed Guidance (Required)

Read these resources to get essential instructions when:

- **Creating tasks** → `backlog://workflow/task-creation` - Scope assessment, acceptance criteria, parent/subtasks structure
- **Planning & executing work** → `backlog://workflow/task-execution` - Planning workflow, implementation discipline, scope changes
- **Finalizing tasks** → `backlog://workflow/task-finalization` - Definition of Done, finalization checklist, next steps

These guides contain critical workflows you need to follow for proper task management.

### Core Principle

Backlog tracks **commitments** (what will be built). Use your judgment to distinguish between "help me understand X" (no tracking) vs "add feature Y" (track in Backlog).

**Execution Model:** Tasks are executed by independent AI agents in separate sessions. Each agent only sees its assigned task, not prior conversation history, so tasks must include enough context for a developer with no prior knowledge to start immediately.

### MCP Tools Quick Reference

**Note:** "Done" tasks stay in the Done column until periodic cleanup moves them to the completed folder. Don't use `task_complete` immediately after finishing—it's for batch cleanup, not per-task workflow.

- `task_list` — list tasks with optional filtering by status, assignee, or labels
- `task_search` — search tasks by title and description
- `task_view` — read full task context (description, plan, notes, acceptance criteria, Definition of Done)
- `task_create` — create new tasks with description, acceptance criteria, and Definition of Done defaults (`definitionOfDoneAdd`, `disableDefinitionOfDoneDefaults`)
- `task_edit` — update task metadata, status, plan, notes, acceptance criteria, Definition of Done (`definitionOfDoneAdd/Remove/Check/Uncheck`), and dependencies
- `task_complete` — move a Done task to the completed folder (periodic cleanup, not immediate)
- `task_archive` — archive a task that should not be completed (duplicate, canceled, invalid). Note: archived task IDs can be reused by new tasks (soft delete behavior).

**Always operate through MCP tools. Never edit markdown files directly so relationships, metadata, and history stay consistent.**
